---
title: "Drum On"
subtitle: "Play the drums without formal education."
date: 2019-11-03
image: "photo-1519892300165-cb5542fb47c7"
---

Drums are an underrated music instrument. It often puts people off because it is loud, enormous, cumbersome, and irritating (especially for neighbors). Never in my life have I heard anyone describe it as elegant nor delicate. While I can't entirely disagree, some part of it is still arguable.

First of all, the biggest perk of playing drums is that it's *amazingly* easy to get started with. Bring an inexperienced stranger to your drum kit and—with correct directions—they'd be able to play a basic beat in 5 minutes or less. Add a few more minutes and they could get that *boom-pa-boom-boom-pa* to sound more confident and solid. This is rare, compared to other instruments, where some music theory is required before you can play anything enjoyable. The reason why is the drums being a rhythmic instrument.

With any rhythmic instrument, what you need to do is to **coordinate your body** to **make the sound you want**. And for a "first time drumming" session, you're essentially being told about what to do and what sound to make. In other words, it is reduced to a body coordination exercise. If you can tell your limbs to move as you wish, you're a drummer.

Of course, the journey doesn't end there. There are various supporting elements that you need to train to improve as a drummer. For me, I'm breaking it down like this:

1. **Technique**: stick grips (German, French, American, traditional), seating posture, wrist movement (less arm), stick control (timeliness, accuracy, strength, speed), movement around the kit, drum rudiments, and independence (to not be limited by body coordination).

2. **Theory:** time signatures, note and rest length (including tuplets), metronome (bpm, subdivisions), drum notation.

3. **Musicality:** timekeeping (tempo consistency), pattern identification (playing by ear), pattern building (arrangement), melodic playing (tone and voicings), soloing (expression, phrasing, songwriting).

There should be more advanced stuff along the way, but these are some fundamental items that I'm aware of. Well, I should practice more.
