---
title: "Power"
subtitle: "Who's your favorite superhero?"
date: 2019-10-27
image: "photo-1538666159516-d746c8d45f97"
---

I am often scared by the things I can do. No, I cannot bend steel or stop bullets or create webs&mdash;unless you're talking about webs-sites, ha! What I mean is, I'm often scared by the things that are within my control: the normal you-can-do-it-too stuff.

Sure, knowing something you *can't* do is quite scary, too. Understanding that you don't have control over other people, for instance, can be hard for some people. Admitting that luxurious lifestyle is not suitable for your financial condition, can be stressful as well. But, when you reach those conclusions, your job is to **put a stop to something**. Don't make a fuss over somebody else's life. Don't be tempted of those extravagant shoes. Embrace the fact, make peace with your mind, and you're done.

Understanding what you *can* do, however, is to **get started with something**. Realizing that you have full control over your time, puts the burden of your growth (mental, relationship, skill, career, financial) in your hands. Knowing that a 10-minute conversation with your friend can change their life forever, makes you think about what to and not to say to them. You'll start thinking about all the possibilities out there, things you didn't think were possible, even things you didn't think about, at all!

It is a *lot* of pressure for a normal human being. (Well, super-humans are in bigger pressure and substantially more ethical dilemmas, though, if I were to conclude from superhero movies&mdash;but it's irrelevant, I know.) And yeah, one can always choose not to care and just "enjoy life". But in my opinion, it is *far* more important to understand the power that you wield, rather than to completely give it up. This, I believe, is also what sets successful and average people apart: **successful people are mindful of their power**.

P.S. Comic about Bruce Wayne just "enjoying life" wouldn't be as popular, would it?
