src/posts/2019-10-20-the-satisfaction-dilemma.md, before:

---
title: "The Satisfaction Dilemma"
subtitle: "To be, or not to be? Both, maybe?"
date: 2019-10-20
image: "photo-1505664194779-8beaceb93744"
---

This week, there was a viral discussion about salary on Twitter. Initially, the original poster asked people to share their salary via DM&mdash;not the first time for this kind of sensation to blow up, I know. They then shared the interesting submissions for everyone to see (mostly the ones with unique stories and/or fantastic numbers). Well, of course, this triggered many people.

I have to admit, some submissions were quite spectacular. And after reading all of them, some feelings did spark in me: astonishment, curiosity, competitiveness, and a bit of insecurity. "Am I behind in the game?" I mean come on, IDR 50+ Mio at 23 years old?

But what I find the most interesting are the responses. Some people encouraged others (and themselves) to be happy with what they have, saying that we each have a different journey. Some others expressed discouragement about their current condition, implying that life is unfair and many people are underappreciated. Both are fine and perfectly understandable, I guess. But my contemplation about this led to a dilemma:

1. **Happiness is not achieved; it's a state of mind.** I believe this is true for *all* of us. The most successful people in terms of career or financial are not guaranteed to be happy. While that family you know living in a simple home with a humble lifestyle seems to be enjoying their life every day. We need to learn that enough is enough.

2. **Growth is a product of dissatisfaction.** Content people don't grow as fast. A few years ago, I concluded that knowledge is not gained by experience; it is gained by observation and mindfulness. Getting *through* something is not enough, we have to know that there are things to reap from around us. Don't just sit and wait for things to come to us.

So, what do we do now? As with many things in life, I guess the answer is **"balance."**

Commit message:

Add name to footer, use hellip, revise writings

src/posts/2019-10-20-the-satisfaction-dilemma.md, after:

---
title: "The Satisfaction Dilemma"
subtitle: "To be, or not to be? Both, maybe?"
date: 2019-10-20
image: "photo-1505664194779-8beaceb93744"
---

This week, there was a viral discussion about salary on Twitter. Initially, the original poster asked people to share their salary via DM&mdash;not the first time for this kind of sensation to blow up, I know. They then shared the interesting submissions for everyone to see (mostly the ones with unique stories and/or fantastic numbers). Well, of course, this triggered many people.

I have to admit that some submissions were quite spectacular. And after reading all of them, some feelings did spark in me: astonishment, curiosity, competitiveness, and a bit of insecurity. "Am I behind in the game?" I mean come on, IDR 50 Mio salary at 23 years old?

But what I find the most interesting are the responses. Some people encouraged others (and themselves) to be happy with what they have, saying that we each have a different journey. Some others expressed resentment about their current condition, implying that life is unfair and many people are under-appreciated. Both are fine and perfectly understandable, I guess. But my contemplation about this led to a dilemma:

1. **Happiness isn't something to obtain; it's a state of mind.** I believe this is true for *all* of us. The most successful people in terms of wealth or career are not guaranteed to be happy, while that family you know living in a simple home with a humble lifestyle seems to be enjoying their life every day. We need to learn that enough is enough. Make peace with ourselves and live our lives in a way that makes us happy.

2. **Growth is a product of dissatisfaction.** Content people don't grow as fast. A few years ago, I concluded that we don't necessarily gain knowledge by experience; we have to be mindful of *what* happens and *how* things are happening. Getting through something is not enough; we have to know that there are things to reap from around us. Don't just sit and wait for things to come to us.

So, what do we do? One is about our mental state while the other is about our personal development. Of course, both are equally important for us in the long term. Well &hellip;, as with many things in life, I guess the answer is **"balance"**?
