---
title: "Time"
subtitle: "I hate wasting time. Yet, I do it all the time."
date: 2019-12-01
image: "photo-1501139083538-0139583c060f"
---

I have this urge to always do something useful: to learn, to create, to be a better self. I believe, if we are not mindful of our growth, we will just stop growing. That's why I always pressure myself not to waste *time,* **the most valuable resource in the world**.

For all this to happen, I need outlets&mdash;more than one of them. Fortunately, there are options aplenty. I can work on office tasks to boost my impact and work performance. I can work on dev hobby projects to broaden my knowledge and experience. I can attend community events to expand my network. I can learn and practice my music skills to be more proficient in my hobby. I can work on my photography portfolio to have more satisfying visual works. I can also work on my writing skills to be able to leave a legacy in the form of writing. Yeah, all that.

The abundance of options, however, often backfires. I find it hard to prioritize, especially when given a limited time, like 1 to 2 hours. When that's the case, I usually turn to some leisure activities like "light" video-watching, "light" article-reading, or "light" gaming. I choose those activities because "heavy" ones, like binge-watching a long TV series, researching about a complex subject, or starting a new campaign in a triple-A game, all sound very time-consuming and overwhelming.

It's somewhat worse though, isn't it? Instead of letting go of the pressure and enjoying quality entertainment, I'll be entering a guilt trip; I'll try to enjoy something while being reminded by myself that this is procrastination. This might also lead to less productivity afterward because I couldn't be fully refreshed as a Windows PC could with a system restart. And I think I've been in this vicious cycle for a while.

The solution seems to be in **proper planning**. Plan our schedule so we know what we're supposed to do and whether we can reward ourselves with some enjoyments. This makes total sense because all this time, it's not like I haven't been productive at all; I have put my effort here and there in my spare time. I just don't know whether I deserve to relax, whether the results are good enough, and whether I'm being a better person day by day. If I plan everything, I'll hopefully be less anxious about my time utilization.
