---
title: "Wake Me Up"
subtitle: "When December ends."
date: 2019-12-08
image: "photo-1431440869543-efaf3388c585"
---

It's already December and once again, it's nearly the end of the year. Now would be the perfect time to enjoy the last moments of the year by splurging on good deals, going on vacation with family, or taking some days off work just to ease your mind. People usually also take some time to contemplate and reflect on what they have achieved this year and what to achieve next year&mdash;the new year's resolutions.

But this year, it's a bit different for me. We've got a big company agenda, which is an internal system migration. It's a quite significant change because it involves core processes across multiple systems and departments. To add to the pressure, we didn't get to migrate one by one because it's a process *chain*&mdash;we have to move everything from the old chain to the new one in one go. In Layman's term, **if something goes awry, we're fucked.**

I'm not saying that I prefer not to do this migration, though. It's been our goal for *years* to free ourselves from this system that we use. It is a commercial vendor-managed system that is a pain to develop, to pull data from, to scale, and it's costing us a fortune. We're practically trapped because it was our choice to invest in it. But I'm also not saying that this was a bad decision. It was a reasonable choice for our condition back then, but through the years, as with other startups, we were focusing more on customer-facing things that we forgot that doing things irresponsibly is like a debt: we *have* to pay later. And "later" is *now*.

So, probably for the past 5 months, we've been doing our best to prepare the nuts and bolts to implement the change as smoothly as possible. I'm sure there will still be issues that need days or even weeks (!) of fixing, but that's okay. We have to prepare for the worst. Everything will be fine. They will remember us as heroes. I just hope that I can fast forward to the time when life is peaceful again: **the calm *after* the storm**.
